PS C:\Users\Kian\Desktop\de-vokabeln> ollama run deepseek-r1:7b
>>> translate "Sie können auf dem Bildschirm sehen, dass es ein Junge ist?" into English.
Thinking...
Alright, so I need to translate the German sentence "Sie können auf dem Bildschirm seen, dass es ein Junge ist?" into English. Let me break it down step by
step.

First, looking at each word individually. "Sie können" translates to "You can" or more naturally as "You are able." In this context, since the sentence is a        
bit formal, maybe "You may see" would be better because it implies permission. 

Next, "auf dem Bildschirm" means "on the screen." So that's straightforward.

Then comes the verb "sehen," which in German can mean to see or observe. But here, given the context of looking at something visually, "see" works well as a        
direct translation. However, I have to be careful with the tense. The original sentence uses "scheißen" (which is slang for peeing), but wait, no, in this
case, it's "sehen," so past tense would be "sah." 

"Junge" specifically means young male. But the original might want to keep it general as "a man."

Putting it all together: "You may see on the screen that it's a man?" That seems correct, but I should check for any possible improvements in phrasing.

Wait, maybe "You can see on the screen that..." sounds better than "you may see." Also, sometimes people use "You're looking at...," but since the original is      
more of a statement, "You can see" fits well.

So putting it all together: "You can see on the screen that it's a man?" Or perhaps even smoother as "On the screen, you can see that he is a boy." But I
think the first version is good enough.
...done thinking.

The sentence translates to: "You can see on the screen that it's a man?" 

Alternatively, a slightly polished version could be: "On the screen, you can see that he is a boy."

>>>
PS C:\Users\Kian\Desktop\de-vokabeln> ollama run deepseek-r1:8b
>>> translate "Sie können auf dem Bildschirm sehen, dass es ein Junge ist?" into English.
Thinking...
Okay, user wants me to translate this German sentence into English: "Sie können auf dem Bildschirm sehen, dass es ein Junge ist?"

Hmm, let's break it down. This is a simple declarative sentence with three parts:
1. Sie können (You can)
2. Auf dem Bildschirm sehen (See on the screen)
3. Dass es ein Junge ist (That it's a boy)

The German structure uses dass to introduce the subordinate clause, which isn't necessary in English where "that" is often omitted in such constructions. 

I notice this might be from a child-directed speech context - maybe explaining something to a kid? The sentence feels like it could be used by parents 
pointing out someone on screen.

But wait, let's check if there are any nuances I'm missing... Is the speaker certain about "it" being a boy? German often uses sein with more certainty than        
English would. Maybe in this case we can keep the direct statement without questioning.

Also considering that Bildschirm could mean monitor or screen - but since it's likely pointing at visual media, "screen" feels more natural in everyday 

The most straightforward translation would be: "You can see on the screen that it's a boy."

But I wonder if the user needs this for something specific... Maybe they're translating an instruction manual? Or perhaps preparing to teach German? The lack       
of context makes me think simple accuracy is what they need, but maybe they'd appreciate knowing it could work in different situations.

The original sentence has that polite "Sie" form - should I keep it formal or make it more casual? Since they didn't specify, English default would be neutral      
("you can") rather than overly formal ("you may").

Final thought: This seems like a basic translation request. The user might be learning German and encountered this in study material. Keeping the translation       
simple but accurate is probably best.
...done thinking.

You can see on the screen that it's a boy.

>>>
PS C:\Users\Kian\Desktop\de-vokabeln> ollama run deepseek-r1:14b
>>> translate "Sie können auf dem Bildschirm sehen, dass es ein Junge ist?" into English.
Thinking...
Okay, I need to translate the German sentence "Sie können auf dem Bildschirm sehen, dass es ein Junge ist?" into English. Let me break this down step by step.

First, looking at each part of the sentence:

- "Sie" translates to "You" or "They." Since it's formal and referring to an audience, probably "you."

- "können" means "can" or "are able to." Here, it's about ability, so "can."

- "auf dem Bildschirm" is straightforward: "on the screen."

- "sehen" translates to "see." So, putting that together, "can see on the screen."

Next part:

- "dass" means "that," introducing a dependent clause.

- "es" is "it."

- "ein Junge ist" is "a boy is." So, combining these: "that it's a boy."

Putting it all together, I get "You can see on the screen that it's a boy?" Wait, but in German, sometimes the word order changes. Let me check.

The original sentence ends with a question mark, so the structure is correct as a yes/no question. In English, it's natural to say, "Can you see on the screen      
that it's a boy?" Or maybe rephrase for smoother flow: "You can see on the screen that it is a boy?"

Hmm, does "es" in German function similarly here? Yes, it's just adding subject presence. So, the translation should capture both the ability and the
observation.

I think "You can see from the screen that it's a boy?" sounds better, but wait, the preposition might need adjustment. Alternatively, "on the screen" is
correct as it specifies where they are seeing it.

So, finalizing: "You can see on the screen that it's a boy?"

Wait, does the German sentence have a question structure? It ends with a question mark, so in English, I should make sure it's also a question. But "can you        
see..." would be more natural as a question, but the original is stating something in a declarative way ending with a question mark, which seems odd.

Wait, no—the German sentence is declarative but ends with a question mark, perhaps for emphasis or to ask confirmation. So maybe it's better translated as 
"You can see on the screen that it's a boy?" keeping the question structure.

Alternatively, if it were a direct question asking ability, it would be phrased differently in English, but since it's more of an observation with a question       
mark for emphasis, my initial translation seems okay.
...done thinking.

"You can see on the screen that it's a boy."

>>> 